# markdown-it-obsidian-callouts

Plugin for markdown-it to support GitHub and Obsidian callouts, 
as well as codeblock admonitions supported by the [Admonition plugin](https://github.com/javalent/admonitions).

It uses Obsidian default icons and callout flavors out of the gate.

> [!WARNING]
> This fork is specifically designed to take advantage of native CSS features.
> Its output is not obsidian-syntax compatible, nor does the configuration aim to be
> compatible either.
> 
> The specific reason for this fork is to have optimized HTML output that reduces code size
> by taking advantage of CSS instead of multiple HTML elements to display things properly.
> Only use this if you know that you would want this. However, this fork does try to keep its
> output as close as possible to the original design of obsidian's callouts.
> 
> As a final note, this fork aims to have its markup validate properly with [HTML-Validate](https://html-validate.org)
> as the author uses it for her personal site.

## Usage

```javascript
const markdownIt = require('markdown-it');
const mdItObsidianCallouts = require('markdown-it-obsidian-callouts');

const md = new MarkdownIt()
md.use(mdItObsidianCallouts);
```

## Callouts and Admonitions

The following four variations will produce the same html.

Callout:

```md
> [!note] title
> Hello World!
> > [!warning] a warning
> > This is a nested warning callout
```

A callout with nested code-block admonition:

```md
> [!note] title
> Hello World!
> ~~~ad-warning
> title: a warning
> This is a nested warning callout
> ~~~
```

Code-block admonition with nested callout: 

```md
~~~ad-note
title: title
Hello World!
> [!warning] a warning
> This is a nested warning callout
~~~
```

Code-block admonition with nested code-block admonition: 

```md
~~~~ad-note
title: title
Hello World!
~~~ad-warning
title: a warning
This is a nested warning callout
~~~
~~~~
```

The above nested admonition will generate the following html (it will sadly be less tidy):
> [!WARNING]
> This is not the output generated by this fork, but I will not be updating the readme to reflect the output, I don't
> have the mental bandwidth to do so. Sorry.

```html
<div class="callout" data-callout="note">
  <div class="callout-title">
    <div class="callout-title-icon">
      <svg ... class="lucide lucide-pencil"> ... </svg>
    </div>
    <div class="callout-title-inner">title</div>
  </div>
  <div class="callout-content">
    <p>Hello World!</p>
    <div class="callout" data-callout="warning">
      <div class="callout-title">
        <div class="callout-title-icon">
          <svg ... class="lucide lucide-alert-triangle"> ... </svg>
        </div>
        <div class="callout-title-inner">a warning</div>
      </div>
      <div class="callout-content">
        <p>This is a nested warning callout</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

## Icons

Default icons are as used by obsidian, and come from [lucide.dev](https://lucide.dev/)

Version 0.268.0  
ISC License  
Copyright (c) 2020, Lucide Contributors  

## Add css

If you use it in other environments like vuepress/vitepress, you may need to add your own css, as this plugin only generates dom structures.

You can use the [index.css](./style/index.css), The css content is exactly the same as the style of the callout in obsidian (I screened, copied, pasted and modified it from ob). And I adapted the shading mode for vuepress and vitepress.

> [!note]
> 
> Why not set the default style to make it easier to use?
> 
> If you want to default the style in markdown-it, you can only set it on the dom style through property Settings, which can make custom changes difficult

## Similar plugins

- https://github.com/alexjv89/markdown-it-obsidian - add suport for obsidian wikilinks
- https://github.com/glitchassassin/markdown-it-obsidian-images - add support for obsidian wikilinks for images
- https://github.com/antfu/markdown-it-github-alerts - support for github alerts as annotated blockquote
- https://github.com/commenthol/markdown-it-admon - rST-style admonitions
- https://github.com/docarys/markdown-it-admonition - Docarys admonitions
- https://github.com/mdit-plugins/mdit-plugins - collection of plugins for markdown-it, including callout-style admonitions
